1 You therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
2 The things which you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same things to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.
3 You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
4 No soldier on duty entangles himself in the affairs of life, that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier.
5 Also, if anyone competes in athletics, he isn’t crowned unless he has competed by the rules.
6 The farmer who labors must be the first to get a share of the crops.
7 Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things.
8 Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the offspring of David, according to my Good News,
9 in which I suffer hardship to the point of chains as a criminal. But God’s word isn’t chained.
10 Therefore I endure all things for the chosen ones’ sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
11 This saying is trustworthy:
 “For if we died with him,
 we will also live with him.
12 If we endure,
 we will also reign with him.
 If we deny him,
 he also will deny us.
13 If we are faithless,
 he remains faithful;
 for he can’t deny himself.”
14 Remind them of these things, charging them in the sight of the Lord that they don’t argue about words to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear.
15 Give diligence to present yourself approved by God, a workman who doesn’t need to be ashamed, properly handling the Word of Truth.
16 But shun empty chatter, for it will go further in ungodliness,
17 and those words will consume like gangrene, of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus:
18 men who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and overthrowing the faith of some.
19 However, God’s firm foundation stands, having this seal: “The Lord knows those who are his,” and, “Let every one who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.”
20 Now in a large house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of clay. Some are for honor and some for dishonor.
21 If anyone therefore purges himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and suitable for the master’s use, prepared for every good work.
22 Flee from youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
23 But refuse foolish and ignorant questionings, knowing that they generate strife.
24 The Lord’s servant must not quarrel, but be gentle toward all, able to teach, patient,
25 in gentleness correcting those who oppose him. Perhaps God may give them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth,
26 and they may recover themselves out of the devil’s snare, having been taken captive by him to do his will.
