1 Don’t be envious of evil men,
 neither desire to be with them;
2 for their hearts plot violence
 and their lips talk about mischief.
3 Through wisdom a house is built;
 by understanding it is established;
4 by knowledge the rooms are filled
 with all rare and beautiful treasure.
5 A wise man has great power.
 A knowledgeable man increases strength,
6 for by wise guidance you wage your war,
 and victory is in many advisors.
7 Wisdom is too high for a fool.
 He doesn’t open his mouth in the gate.
8 One who plots to do evil
 will be called a schemer.
9 The schemes of folly are sin.
 The mocker is detested by men.
10 If you falter in the time of trouble,
 your strength is small.
11 Rescue those who are being led away to death!
 Indeed, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!
12 If you say, “Behold, we didn’t know this,”
 doesn’t he who weighs the hearts consider it?
 He who keeps your soul, doesn’t he know it?
 Shall he not render to every man according to his work?
13 My son, eat honey, for it is good,
 the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste;
14 so you shall know wisdom to be to your soul.
 If you have found it, then there will be a reward:
 Your hope will not be cut off.
15 Don’t lay in wait, wicked man, against the habitation of the righteous.
 Don’t destroy his resting place;
16 for a righteous man falls seven times and rises up again,
 but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
17 Don’t rejoice when your enemy falls.
 Don’t let your heart be glad when he is overthrown,
18 lest Yahweh see it, and it displease him,
 and he turn away his wrath from him.
19 Don’t fret yourself because of evildoers,
 neither be envious of the wicked;
20 for there will be no reward to the evil man.
 The lamp of the wicked will be snuffed out.
21 My son, fear Yahweh and the king.
 Don’t join those who are rebellious,
22 for their calamity will rise suddenly.
 Who knows what destruction may come from them both?
23 These also are sayings of the wise:
 To show partiality in judgment is not good.
24 He who says to the wicked, “You are righteous,”
 peoples will curse him, and nations will abhor him—
25 but it will go well with those who convict the guilty,
 and a rich blessing will come on them.
26 An honest answer
 is like a kiss on the lips.
27 Prepare your work outside,
 and get your fields ready.
 Afterwards, build your house.
28 Don’t be a witness against your neighbor without cause.
 Don’t deceive with your lips.
29 Don’t say, “I will do to him as he has done to me;
 I will repay the man according to his work.”
30 I went by the field of the sluggard,
 by the vineyard of the man void of understanding.
31 Behold, it was all grown over with thorns.
 Its surface was covered with nettles,
 and its stone wall was broken down.
32 Then I saw, and considered well.
 I saw, and received instruction:
33 a little sleep, a little slumber,
 a little folding of the hands to sleep,
34 so your poverty will come as a robber
 and your want as an armed man.
