1 I command you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his Kingdom:
2 preach the word; be urgent in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort with all patience and teaching.
3 For the time will come when they will not listen to the sound doctrine, but having itching ears, will heap up for themselves teachers after their own lusts,
4 and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn away to fables.
5 But you be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry.
6 For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure has come.
7 I have fought the good fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the faith.
8 From now on, the crown of righteousness is stored up for me, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
9 Be diligent to come to me soon,
10 for Demas left me, having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; and Titus to Dalmatia.
11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service.
12 But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
13 Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come—and the books, especially the parchments.
14 Alexander the coppersmith did much evil to me. The Lord will repay him according to his deeds.
15 Beware of him, for he greatly opposed our words.
16 At my first defense, no one came to help me, but all left me. May it not be held against them.
17 But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear. So I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
18 And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
20 Erastus remained at Corinth, but I left Trophimus at Miletus sick.
21 Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus salutes you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers.
22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.
