1 A revelation.
 Yahweh’s word is against the land of Hadrach,
 and will rest upon Damascus—
 for the eye of man
 and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Yahweh—
2 and Hamath, also, which borders on it,
 Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise.
3 Tyre built herself a stronghold,
 and heaped up silver like the dust,
 and fine gold like the mire of the streets.
4 Behold, the Lord will dispossess her,
 and he will strike her power in the sea;
 and she will be devoured with fire.
5 Ashkelon will see it, and fear;
 Gaza also, and will writhe in agony;
 as will Ekron, for her expectation will be disappointed;
 and the king will perish from Gaza,
 and Ashkelon will not be inhabited.
6 Foreigners will dwell in Ashdod,
 and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
7 I will take away his blood out of his mouth,
 and his abominations from between his teeth;
 and he also will be a remnant for our God;
 and he will be as a chieftain in Judah,
 and Ekron as a Jebusite.
8 I will encamp around my house against the army,
 that no one pass through or return;
 and no oppressor will pass through them any more:
 for now I have seen with my eyes.
9 Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion!
 Shout, daughter of Jerusalem!
 Behold, your King comes to you!
 He is righteous, and having salvation;
 lowly, and riding on a donkey,
 even on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
10 I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim
 and the horse from Jerusalem.
 The battle bow will be cut off;
 and he will speak peace to the nations.
 His dominion will be from sea to sea,
 and from the River to the ends of the earth.
11 As for you also,
 because of the blood of your covenant,
 I have set free your prisoners from the pit in which is no water.
12 Turn to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope!
 Even today I declare that I will restore double to you.
13 For indeed I bend Judah as a bow for me.
 I have loaded the bow with Ephraim.
 I will stir up your sons, Zion,
 against your sons, Greece,
 and will make you like the sword of a mighty man.
14 Yahweh will be seen over them.
 His arrow will flash like lightning.
 The Lord Yahweh will blow the trumpet,
 and will go with whirlwinds of the south.
15 Yahweh of Armies will defend them.
 They will destroy and overcome with sling stones.
 They will drink, and roar as through wine.
 They will be filled like bowls,
 like the corners of the altar.
16 Yahweh their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people;
 for they are like the jewels of a crown,
 lifted on high over his land.
17 For how great is his goodness,
 and how great is his beauty!
 Grain will make the young men flourish,
 and new wine the virgins.
