1 Jesus said these things, then lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, “Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you; 
2 even as you gave him authority over all flesh, so he will give eternal life to all whom you have given him. 
3 This is eternal life, that they should know you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ. 
4 I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which you have given me to do. 
5 Now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world existed.
6 “I revealed your name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me. They have kept your word. 
7 Now they have known that all things whatever you have given me are from you, 
8 for the words which you have given me I have given to them; and they received them, and knew for sure that I came from you. They have believed that you sent me. 
9 I pray for them. I don’t pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. 
10 All things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. 
11 I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are. 
12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. I have kept those whom you have given me. None of them is lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
13 But now I come to you, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves. 
14 I have given them your word. The world hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 
15 I pray not that you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one. 
16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 
17 Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth. 
18 As you sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world. 
19 For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
20 “Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who will believe in me through their word, 
21 that they may all be one; even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that you sent me. 
22 The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one, 
23 I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one, that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me. 
24 Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may see my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. 
25 Righteous Father, the world hasn’t known you, but I knew you; and these knew that you sent me. 
26 I made known to them your name, and will make it known; that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.”
