1 He who is often rebuked and stiffens his neck
 will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.
2 When the righteous thrive, the people rejoice;
 but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
3 Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father;
 but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
4 The king by justice makes the land stable,
 but he who takes bribes tears it down.
5 A man who flatters his neighbor
 spreads a net for his feet.
6 An evil man is snared by his sin,
 but the righteous can sing and be glad.
7 The righteous care about justice for the poor.
 The wicked aren’t concerned about knowledge.
8 Mockers stir up a city,
 but wise men turn away anger.
9 If a wise man goes to court with a foolish man,
 the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.
10 The bloodthirsty hate a man of integrity;
 and they seek the life of the upright.
11 A fool vents all of his anger,
 but a wise man brings himself under control.
12 If a ruler listens to lies,
 all of his officials are wicked.
13 The poor man and the oppressor have this in common:
 Yahweh gives sight to the eyes of both.
14 The king who fairly judges the poor,
 his throne shall be established forever.
15 The rod of correction gives wisdom,
 but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
16 When the wicked increase, sin increases;
 but the righteous will see their downfall.
17 Correct your son, and he will give you peace;
 yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
18 Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint;
 but one who keeps the law is blessed.
19 A servant can’t be corrected by words.
 Though he understands, yet he will not respond.
20 Do you see a man who is hasty in his words?
 There is more hope for a fool than for him.
21 He who pampers his servant from youth
 will have him become a son in the end.
22 An angry man stirs up strife,
 and a wrathful man abounds in sin.
23 A man’s pride brings him low,
 but one of lowly spirit gains honor.
24 Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of his own soul.
 He takes an oath, but dares not testify.
25 The fear of man proves to be a snare,
 but whoever puts his trust in Yahweh is kept safe.
26 Many seek the ruler’s favor,
 but a man’s justice comes from Yahweh.
27 A dishonest man detests the righteous,
 and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.
