1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
 for his loving kindness endures forever.
2 Let Israel now say
 that his loving kindness endures forever.
3 Let the house of Aaron now say
 that his loving kindness endures forever.
4 Now let those who fear Yahweh say
 that his loving kindness endures forever.
5 Out of my distress, I called on Yah.
 Yah answered me with freedom.
6 Yahweh is on my side. I will not be afraid.
 What can man do to me?
7 Yahweh is on my side among those who help me.
 Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.
8 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,
 than to put confidence in man.
9 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,
 than to put confidence in princes.
10 All the nations surrounded me,
 but in Yahweh’s name I cut them off.
11 They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me.
 In Yahweh’s name I indeed cut them off.
12 They surrounded me like bees.
 They are quenched like the burning thorns.
 In Yahweh’s name I cut them off.
13 You pushed me back hard, to make me fall,
 but Yahweh helped me.
14 Yah is my strength and song.
 He has become my salvation.
15 The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous.
 “The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.
16 The right hand of Yahweh is exalted!
 The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly!”
17 I will not die, but live,
 and declare Yah’s works.
18 Yah has punished me severely,
 but he has not given me over to death.
19 Open to me the gates of righteousness.
 I will enter into them.
 I will give thanks to Yah.
20 This is the gate of Yahweh;
 the righteous will enter into it.
21 I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me,
 and have become my salvation.
22 The stone which the builders rejected
 has become the cornerstone.
23 This is Yahweh’s doing.
 It is marvelous in our eyes.
24 This is the day that Yahweh has made.
 We will rejoice and be glad in it!
25 Save us now, we beg you, Yahweh!
 Yahweh, we beg you, send prosperity now.
26 Blessed is he who comes in Yahweh’s name!
 We have blessed you out of Yahweh’s house.
27 Yahweh is God, and he has given us light.
 Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.
28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you.
 You are my God, I will exalt you.
29 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
 for his loving kindness endures forever.
